SYSFS(2)                   Linux Programmer's Manual                  SYSFS(2)



NAME
       sysfs - get file system type information

SYNOPSIS
       int sysfs(int option, const char *fsname);

       int sysfs(int option, unsigned int fs_index, char *buf);

       int sysfs(int option);

DESCRIPTION
       sysfs()  returns  information  about  the  file  system types currently
       present in the kernel.  The specific form of the sysfs() call  and  the
       information returned depends on the option in effect:

       1  Translate  the file-system identifier string fsname into a file-sys‐
          tem type index.

       2  Translate the file-system type index fs_index into a null-terminated
          file-system  identifier  string.  This string will be written to the
          buffer pointed to by buf.  Make sure that buf has  enough  space  to
          accept the string.

       3  Return  the  total  number of file system types currently present in
          the kernel.

       The numbering of the file-system type indexes begins with zero.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, sysfs() returns the file-system index for  option  1,  zero
       for  option  2, and the number of currently configured file systems for
       option 3.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

ERRORS
       EFAULT Either fsname or buf is outside your accessible address space.

       EINVAL fsname is not a valid file-system type identifier;  fs_index  is
              out-of-bounds; option is invalid.

CONFORMING TO
       SVr4.

NOTES
       This  System-V  derived system call is obsolete; don't use it.  On sys‐
       tems  with  /proc,  the  same   information   can   be   obtained   via
       /proc/filesystems; use that interface instead.

BUGS
       There  is no libc or glibc support.  There is no way to guess how large
       buf should be.

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.51 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                             2010-06-27                          SYSFS(2)
